(upbeat chiming)
All right,
so let's write our hash function.
Now, the key here is that the hash function has
to return valid array indices
and we know our array is of length 10,
and so the indices it returns
have to be zero to nine inclusive.
The hash function I'm going
to write just mods the value by 10
and then takes the absolute value of that.
As I pointed out a few times
when we went through this section,
usually when you are writing a hashing function
and you're wanting to hash the values to array indices,
you wanna mod by the length of the array,
because that guarantees
that the value you'll get is going to be between zero
and whatever the last valid array index is,
so you can do whatever you want to hash the value.
You can have this really complicated hashing function
if you want, but somewhere in there,
you're gonna wanna mod by the length of the array,
so that you know you're
going to be returning an index that's not going to be out
of bounds, and so this is gonna be
a pretty simple hashing function.
I'm just gonna say return Math.abs, value mod 10.
And that's it, and so for 59382,
we're gonna end up with two.
It's essentially gonna give us the last value here,
the value in the ones, and then
we have a negative number here
and that's why we need to take the absolute value.
And so if I run now, let's see what we get.
And I'll just bring this up a little bit and as you see,
the values are being placed based on their one's position,
so 500 is in array slot zero,
59,382 is in position two,
43 is in position three, et cetera.
So if we wanted to get one of these values,
like let's say this was part of a larger application
and we had a get method and we would pass these values,
which doesn't really make sense for integers,
but if these were keys,
it would make sense, so we were storing
something else in the array
and these were actually the keys,
so we need to hash the keys to the array indices.
We would run the same hash function on the values
and that would give us the index.
So if we were passed 500, we'd call the same hash function
or I suppose we should say method in Java,
and we'd get zero back and then we'd go to int nums,
we'd go to position zero.
And so this is just a little challenge
to make sure you understand what the
hashing function is supposed to be doing.
So let's move on to our second challenge.